Ramy curri is a distinguished fellow at
the American University of Beirut he
joins us now from Boston New York
welcome to the program firstly as we've
mentioned the US justice department has
announced criminal charges against
hamas's top leadership and what's your
take on
that it's no surprise the United States
has been heavily uh
enthusiastically um and vigorously
supporting Israel in its current um um
actions in Gaza and the what the UN
calls a gen plausible genocide and it
has long um opposed groups like Hamas
andb calling them designating them as
terrorist
groups that view is challenged by much
of the world um and especially in light
of the un uh affirmation and the uh
Geneva Protocols of 1949 saying that uh
people who are subjugated uh under
foreign occupation have the right to
defend themselves by all means including
armed resistance so these are questions
uh I'm not saying that Hamas is totally
innocent I'm saying that the allegations
are by themselves like the Israeli
allegations that are made uh cannot be
taken at face value they need to be uh
substantiated and this is presumably
what a court action uh will do the
second point is that um the United
States is very keen to to hold Hamas
responsible for its actions but has no
similar desire to hold Israel
accountable for its actions and
therefore in the eyes of most of the
world the United States is not an honest
broker but is a is complicit in the
Israeli genocide and of course you see
the support of the US and funding and
arms and diplomatic protection and now
this kind of uh judicial action against
uh Hamas so what what are the
ramifications of this if I if I can ask
you when it when it comes to the
ceasefire talks overall
then it's hard to tell you know the
United States has long had a tradition
as most Imperial powers do when they
carry out International armed Adventures
uh like in Vietnam they negotiated with
Viet Kong and Paris while they were
fighting with the Viet Kong and Vietnam
and Afghanistan they negotiate with the
Taliban while they're fighting with the
Taliban so this is how Imperial military
adventurism Works uh they cannot resolve
their uh they cannot achieve their goals
militarily so they're forced in the end
to negotiate with the party that they're
trying to kill um and I think something
similar is happening in the Middle East
they're negotiating indirectly with
Hamas uh while uh trying to uh pulverize
it through the Israeli actions on the
ground uh and now through judicial
actions which are the judicial actions
are pretty meaningless they're not going
to uh capture these any of these people
who are still alive and take them to an
American court but it indicates that um
you can negotiate with a party that you
think is a terrorist group uh and most
of the world will not pay much attention
to this because you don't really have
much credibility and it also detracts
from the United States's credibility as
a mediator um but the problem is there's
no other mediator that the Israelis will
trust so you have to deal with the
United States uh but the United States
is not an impartial uh party um and this
is you know the problem here is is
essentially the same one it's been for
the last 100 years under the British in
the Middle East and the US now which is
Imperial Colonial uh Behavior Uh and
this is what Imperial Colonial powers do
and uh we we just have to keep pushing
back against it and asking that the
principles of international law be
applied uh equitably to all parties who
may be accused of war crimes or
terrorism or or whatever uh this is
something we've been calling for for
decades you know take any Arab party you
don't like hisbah Hamas PLO anybody uh
take them to court but also take the
Israelis to court the evidence for what
the Israelis have done in Palestine not
just now but in the last 70 80 years
destroying Villages and taking uh uh
throwing people out and ethnic cleansing
on a mass scale is massive but the the
US will not uh take this to court
anymore than the United Kingdom okay let
me just ask you this if I may if I may
what do you make of the huge protests
that we've seen in Israel then to what
extent does that put pressure on Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu uh it it seems to put pressure
on him but it doesn't really put
pressure on him in the same way that the
massive public support in the US for a
ceasefire among the American people um
does not seem to put pressure on the
American president either um these
systems um allow the person in power to
do almost anything they want as long as
they have a either a parliamentary
majority which n who does with his
fascist colleagues or uh they have been
elected um as the Biden Administration
has been so there's there's we're not
going to see Street demonstrations
making Netanyahu change the only thing
that'll make him change is serious
external pressure uh arms embargos uh
maybe loosening up the Western
resistance to the international criminal
court taking more actions or the
international court of justice decision
being implemented as more countries
around the world stop inviting Israel to
sporting events or cultural events as
happened in South Africa that's the kind
of thing that will cause the Israelis uh
to change but it's very hard to see that
happening uh with right now without any
International pressure okay we'll leave
it there Ramy Curry we very much
appreciate your insights thank
you thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer